Adding build systems section (#244)
micro-ROS/micro-ROS.github.io: _docs/concepts/build_system/index.md

---
title: micro-ROS Build System
permalink: /docs/concepts/build_system/
---

micro-ROS provides two ways of building a micro-ROS application for embedded platforms:
- _micro_ros_setup:_ integrates and hides the RTOS-specific build tools in few scripts provided as a ROS 2 package.
_RTOS-specific integrations:_ We have integrated micro-ROS with several RTOS build tools. Click [here](/docs/concepts/build_system/external_build_systems/) to learn more.

**micro_ros_setup** provides a standalone build system in the form of a ROS 2 package for use in any normal ROS 2 workspace. This tool is available in the [micro-ROS/micro_ros_setup](https://github.com/micro-ROS/micro_ros_setup) repository.

The **micro_ros_setup** tool allows compiling and generating images that contain micro-ROS apps for the [supported hardware](/docs/overview/hardware/) boards and [RTOSes](/docs/concepts/rtos/).

> As the **micro_ros_setup** package can be installed like any other ROS 2 package, its usage will be through the ROS 2 CLI tool. Compiling, generating an image and flashing it on a board can be done just with four ROS 2 commands.A detailed description about the usage of this package can be found in the [tutorial section](/docs/tutorials/core/first_application_linux/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As the **micro_ros_setup** package can be installed like any other ROS 2 package, its usage will be through the ROS 2 CLI tool. Compiling, generating an image and flashing it on a board can be done just with four ROS 2 commands. A detailed description about the usage of this package can be found in the [tutorial section](/docs/tutorials/core/first_application_rtos/).
```

```bash
# Configure step
ros2 run micro_ros_setup configure_firmware.sh [APP] [OPTIONS]
```

By running this command without any argument, it will output a list of example applications valid for the selected RTOS.
Common options available at this configuration step are:
  - `--transport` or `-t`: `udp`, `serial` or any hardware specific transport label
  - `--dev` or `-d`: agent string descriptor in a serial-like transport
  - `--ip` or `-i`: agent IP in a network-like transport
  - `--port` or `-p`: agent port in a network-like transport

Finally, it is possible to build and flash a micro-ROS app using:

```bash
# Build step
ros2 run micro_ros_setup build_firmware.sh

# Flash step
ros2 run micro_ros_setup flash_firmware.sh
```

### micro-ROS agent

The micro-ROS build system is also able to ease the compilation of the micro-ROS Agent in a ROS 2 workspace by using these commands:

```bash
# Download micro-ROS-Agent packages
ros2 run micro_ros_setup create_agent_ws.sh
ros2 run micro_ros_setup build_agent.sh
source install/local_setup.bash
ros2 run micro_ros_agent micro_ros_agent [OPTIONS]
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

**Tip 1:** To learn use of the micro_ros_setup build system hands-on, please see the [core tutorials](https://micro-ros.github.io/docs/tutorials/core/first_application_rtos/).

```

> ***TIP:** Remember that the micro-ROS Agent can be also be used with this simple Docker command: `docker run -it --rm -v /dev:/dev --privileged --net=host microros/micro-ros-agent:foxy [OPTIONS]`*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Tip 2 :** Remember that the micro-ROS Agent can be also be used with this simple Docker command: `docker run -it --rm -v /dev:/dev --privileged --net=host microros/micro-ros-agent:foxy [OPTIONS]`
```

Author: Sorry Ralph, which is the Tip 1?

Reviewer: The one in line 67 :-)

Reviewer: I know that you have added a pointer to the tutorial above, but I think it's a good idea to point the reader again to the tutorial once he/she reached the bottom of the page.

Author: Cool, I'm including also this.

---
title: micro-ROS Build System
permalink: /docs/concepts/build_system/
---

micro-ROS provides two ways of building a micro-ROS application for embedded platforms:

> - using the **micro_ros_setup** as a tool integrated in a ROS 2 workspace

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- using the **micro_ros_setup** as a tool integrated in a ROS 2 workspace.
```

> - using the **micro_ros_setup** as a tool integrated in a ROS 2 workspace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- _micro_ros_setup:_ integrates and hides the RTOS-specific build tools in few scripts provided as a ROS 2 package.
```

> - using external integrations tools. Click [here](/docs/concepts/build_system/external_build_systems/) for more details about this option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_RTOS-specific integrations:_ We have integrated micro-ROS with several RTOS build tools. Click [here](/docs/concepts/build_system/external_build_systems/) to learn more.
```

> **micro_ros_setup** provides an standalone build system in the form of a ROS 2 package that can be integrated in a common ROS 2 workspace. This tool is available in [micro-ROS/micro_ros_setup](https://github.com/micro-ROS/micro_ros_setup) repository in GitHub.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**micro_ros_setup** provides a standalone build system in the form of a ROS 2 package that can be integrated in a common ROS 2 workspace. This tool is available in the [micro-ROS/micro_ros_setup](https://github.com/micro-ROS/micro_ros_setup) repository in GitHub.
```

> **micro_ros_setup** provides a standalone build system in the form of a ROS 2 package that can be integrated in a common ROS 2 workspace. This tool is available in the [micro-ROS/micro_ros_setup](https://github.com/micro-ROS/micro_ros_setup) repository in GitHub.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**micro_ros_setup** provides a standalone build system in the form of a ROS 2 package for use in any normal ROS 2 workspace. This tool is available in the [micro-ROS/micro_ros_setup](https://github.com/micro-ROS/micro_ros_setup) repository.
```

> The micro_ros_setup tools is in charge of generating micro-ROS images that contains micro-ROS apps for the [supported hardware](/docs/overview/hardware/) boards and [RTOS](/docs/concepts/rtos/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The **micro_ros_setup** tool is in charge of generating micro-ROS images that contain micro-ROS apps for the [supported hardware](/docs/overview/hardware/) boards and [RTOSes](/docs/concepts/rtos/).
```

> The **micro_ros_setup** tool is in charge of generating micro-ROS images that contain micro-ROS apps for the [supported hardware](/docs/overview/hardware/) boards and [RTOSes](/docs/concepts/rtos/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **micro_ros_setup** tool allows compiling and generating images that contain micro-ROS apps for the [supported hardware](/docs/overview/hardware/) boards and [RTOSes](/docs/concepts/rtos/).
```

> As the micro_ros_setup package can be installed as any other ROS 2 package its usage will be through the ROS 2 CLI tool. For example in order to install the micro-ROS build system in a ROS 2 workspace just download it and build with `colcon`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As the **micro_ros_setup** package can be installed like any other ROS 2 package, its usage will be through the ROS 2 CLI tool. For example in order to install the micro-ROS build system in a ROS 2 workspace just download it and build it with `colcon`:
```

> As the **micro_ros_setup** package can be installed like any other ROS 2 package, its usage will be through the ROS 2 CLI tool. For example in order to install the micro-ROS build system in a ROS 2 workspace just download it and build it with `colcon`:

Reviewer: There is some overlap with the tutorial, or? I propose to minimize any redundancy on the website (for maintenance reasons) and simply refer to the tutorial from hereon, but feel free to illustrate the simplicity by a sentence like "Compiling, generating an image and flashing it on a board is just four commands `ros2 run micro_ros_setup create_firmware, configure_firmware build_firmware, and flash_firmware`" or similar.

Author: I have removed some sections, let me know if is ok for you. We are merging when you approve. Thanks Ralph!

```bash
# Source the ROS 2 installation
source /opt/ros/$ROS_DISTRO/setup.bash

# Create a workspace and download the micro-ROS tools
mkdir microros_ws
cd microros_ws
git clone -b $ROS_DISTRO https://github.com/micro-ROS/micro_ros_setup.git src/micro_ros_setup

# Update dependencies using rosdep
sudo apt update && rosdep update
rosdep install --from-path src --ignore-src -y

# Install pip
sudo apt-get install python3-pip

# Build micro-ROS tools and source them
colcon build
source install/local_setup.bash
```

### micro-ROS client

> Once it is installed the build system tool has some utilities that can be used in order to prepare, build, flash and use a micro-ROS application. The micro-ROS buils system is a four step procedure.In the first step, the user can create a new micro-ROS application by configuring the target hardware and RTOS:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once installed, the build system tool provides some utilities that can be used in order to prepare, build, flash and use a micro-ROS application. The micro-ROS build system is a four-step procedure. In the first step, the user can create a new micro-ROS application by configuring the target hardware and RTOS:
```

```bash
# Create step
ros2 run micro_ros_setup create_firmware_ws.sh [RTOS] [HARDWARE BOARD]
```

> It is possible to obtain a list of the supported hardware by running the command without any argument. By soing so, it possible to see that along with the RTOSes and hardware supported by micro-ROS this build system also provides three extra options:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It is possible to obtain a list of the supported hardware by running the command without any argument. By doing so, it is possible to see that, along with the RTOSes and hardware supported by micro-ROS, the build system also provides three extra options:
```

> It is possible to obtain a list of the supported hardware by running the command without any argument. By soing so, it possible to see that along with the RTOSes and hardware supported by micro-ROS this build system also provides three extra options:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It is possible to obtain a list of the supported hardware by running the command without any argument. By doing so, it is possible to see that along with the RTOSes and hardware supported by micro-ROS this build system also provides with three extra options:
```

- By using `zephyr` as RTOS and `host` as hardware name, it is possible to obtain a Zephyr RTOS image with your micro-ROS app that runs in your host computer. 

> - By using just `host` as RTOS, micro-ROS will build a set of [micro-ROS demo applications](https://github.com/micro-ROS/micro-ROS-demos) natively in your host machine. This applications behaves just like a micro-ROS app (using the same layers and middleware) but allows the user to debug and test the applications.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- By using just `host` as RTOS, micro-ROS will build a set of [micro-ROS demo applications](https://github.com/micro-ROS/micro-ROS-demos) natively in your host machine. These applications behave just like micro-ROS apps (using the same abstraction layers and middleware implementation) and allow the user to debug and test the applications on a PC.
```

- By using `generate_lib` as RTOS it is possible to configure the build system for generating static libraries (`.a`) and a set of headers (`include`) that can be linked in any other external tool. This option requires a valid CMake toolchain.

> Once the build system has create the new firmware project, it is possible to configure it using:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once the build system has created the new firmware project, it is possible to configure it using:
```

> Once the build system has create the new firmware project, it is possible to configure it using:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Once the build system has created the new firmware project, it is possible to configure it using:
```

```bash
# Configure step
ros2 run micro_ros_setup configure_firmware.sh [APP] [OPTIONS]
```

> Running this command without any argument it will output a list of example application valid for the selected RTOS.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By running this command without any argument, it will output a list of example applications valid for the selected RTOS.
```

Common options available at this configuration step are:
  - `--transport` or `-t`: `udp`, `serial` or any hardware specific transport label
  - `--dev` or `-d`: agent string descriptor in a serial-like transport
  - `--ip` or `-i`: agent IP in a network-like transport
  - `--port` or `-p`: agent port in a network-like transport

Finally, it is possible to build and flash a micro-ROS app using:

```bash
# Build step
ros2 run micro_ros_setup build_firmware.sh

# Flash step
ros2 run micro_ros_setup flash_firmware.sh
```

### micro-ROS agent

> The micro-ROS build system is also able to ease the compilation of the micro-ROS Agent in a ROS 2 workspace using these commands:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The micro-ROS build system is also able to ease the compilation of the micro-ROS Agent in a ROS 2 workspace by using these commands:
```

```bash
# Download micro-ROS-Agent packages
ros2 run micro_ros_setup create_agent_ws.sh
ros2 run micro_ros_setup build_agent.sh
source install/local_setup.bash
ros2 run micro_ros_agent micro_ros_agent [OPTIONS]
```

> ***TIP:** Remember that micro-ROS Agent can be also be used with this simple Docker command: `docker run -it --rm -v /dev:/dev --privileged --net=host microros/micro-ros-agent:foxy [OPTIONS]`*

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
***TIP:** Remember that the micro-ROS Agent can be also be used with this simple Docker command: `docker run -it --rm -v /dev:/dev --privileged --net=host microros/micro-ros-agent:foxy [OPTIONS]`*
```
